website/blogs: Okta breach  blog (#7265)
goauthentik/authentik: website/blog/2023-10-23-another-okta-breach/item.md

---
title: “Another Okta breach, but this time it’s the HARs”
description: “HAR files uploaded to Okta support system contained session tokens.”
slug: 2023-10-23-another-okta-breach
authors:
    - name: Jens Langhammer
      title: CTO at Authentik Security Inc
      url: https://github.com/BeryJu
      image_url: https://github.com/BeryJu.png
tags:
    - security breach
    - SSO
    - malicious hacker
    - HAR file
    - sessin token
    - identity provider
    - security

>     - authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - authentication
    - okta
    - cloudflare
    - beyondtrust
    - har
```

We now know that the breach was enabled by a hacker obtaining session tokens that were included in a HAR file (HTTP **_Archive_** Format) that was uploaded to the Okta support system by a customer. A HAR file is a JSON **_archive file_** format that stores session data for all browsers running during the session. It is not rare for a support team troubleshooting an issue to request a HAR file from their customer: [Zendesk](https://support.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/4408828867098-Generating-a-HAR-file-for-troubleshooting) does it, [Atlassian](https://confluence.atlassian.com/kb/generating-har-files-and-analyzing-web-requests-720420612.html) does it, [Salesforce](https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=000385988&type=1) as well.

So it’s not the HAR file itself; it was what was in the file, and left in the file. And, destructively, it is our collective training to not second-guess support teams; especially the support team at one of the world’s most renowned identity protection vendors.

> But it is not all on Okta; every customer impacted by this hack, including BeyondTrust (the one to first identify the breach on October 2) and Cloudflare (who noticed the breach on October 18th) who were guilty of uploading HAR files that had not been scrubbed clean and still included session tokens and other sensitive access data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But it is not all on Okta; every customer impacted by this hack, including BeyondTrust (the one to first identify the breach on October 2) and Cloudflare (who noticed the breach on October 18th) who were "guilty" of uploading HAR files that had not been scrubbed clean and still included session tokens and other sensitive access data. (Cleaning an HAR file is not always a simple task, there are tools like [Google's HAR Sanitizer](https://github.com/google/har-sanitizer), but even tools like that don't 100% guarantee that the resulting file will be clean)
```

---

> title: “Another Okta breach, but this time it’s the HARs”

Author: ```suggestion
title: “Okta got breached again and they still haven’t learned their lesson”
```

## Target the ancillaries

An interesting aspect of this hack was that it exploited the less-considered vulnerability of Support teams, not considered to be the typical entry-way for hackers.

But security engineers know that hackers go in at the odd, unexpected angles. A classic parallel is when someone wants data that a CEO has, they don’t go to the CEO, they go to (and through) the CEO’s assistant!

Similarly, the support team at Okta was used as entry point. Once the hacker gained control of a single customer’s account, they worked to take control of the main Okta dashboard and the entire support system. This lateral-to-go-up movement through access control layers is common technique of hackers.

> ## It’s the response… timing and tone matter

Author: ```suggestion
## It’s the response… lesson not yet learned
```

The timing of Okta's response, not great. The initial denial of the incident, not great. And then, add insult to injury, there’s what can objectively be labeled an [abysmal “announcement” blog](https://sec.okta.com/harfiles) from Okta on October 20.

Everything from the obfuscatory title to the blog’s brevity to the actual writing… and importantly, the lack of any mention at all of BeyondTrust, the company that informed Okta on Octover 2nd that they suspected a breach of the Okta support system.

> “_Tracking Unauthorized Access to Okta's Support System_” has to be the lamest of all confession titles in the history of security breach announcements.

> Not to acknowledge that their customers first informed them seems like willful omission, and not very community-oriented. Ironically, BeyondTrust thanks Okta for their efforts and communications during the two week period of investigation (and denial).

Author: ```suggestion
Not to acknowledge that their customers first informed them seems like willful omission, and it absolutely illustrates that Okta has not yet learned their lesson about transparency, trusting their customers and security partners, and the importance of moving more quickly towards full disclosure. Ironically, BeyondTrust thanks Okta for their efforts and communications during the two week period of investigation (and denial).
```
